Amazon Sales Dataset – Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)

Project Overview

This project presents an in-depth Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) of Amazon sales data. The objective is to analyze key business trends, customer behavior, and revenue patterns to provide data-driven insights for strategic decision-making.

Key Objectives:
Identify sales trends across different product categories
Analyze the impact of discounts and pricing on revenue
Understand how customer ratings influence purchasing behavior
Detect seasonality and peak sales periods
This analysis helps in understanding consumer preferences and optimizing business strategies.

Technologies & Tools Used

Programming Language: Python
Libraries: Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn
Development Environment: Jupyter Notebook
Dataset: Amazon Sales Data (CSV format)

Key Insights from EDA

Sales Trends:
Sales volume significantly increases during Q4 due to seasonal demand.
Certain product categories consistently outperform others in revenue generation.
Revenue & Pricing Strategy:
Mid-range priced products contribute the highest revenue.
Discounted products drive higher sales but may lower overall profit margins.
Customer Behavior Analysis:
Customer ratings strongly correlate with purchase decisions.
More than 70% of sales are influenced by product reviews.

Project Structure

Amazon-SalesDataset-EDA.ipynb – Jupyter Notebook containing the full EDA.
data/ – Folder containing raw dataset in CSV format.
images/ – Visualizations generated from the analysis.
README.md – Project documentation.
Visualizations Included

Correlation Heatmap – Identifies relationships between features.
Sales Trend Analysis – Examines revenue fluctuations over time.
Box Plot Analysis – Detects outliers in product pricing.
Category-Wise Revenue Distribution – Highlights high-performing segments.

How to Use This Repository?

1.Clone the repository:
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/Amazon-Sales-EDA.git
2.Install dependencies:
pip install pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn
3.Open and run the Jupyter Notebook:
jupyter notebook

Future Enhancements

Develop a predictive model for future sales forecasting
Perform sentiment analysis on customer reviews
Automate data analysis with a web-based dashboard
For further improvements, contributions and discussions are welcome.
